### In Class Essay
Agent based modeling (ABM) has become a powerful tool for simulating real world problems. The potential for using ABM as a mathematical model to evaluate situations before they happen helps to make informed decisions. Traditionally, ABM modeled complex systems through using agents with behavior described with simple rules, but the rise in volume and specificity of data has grown significantly which has allowed for ABM to model individuals with distinct characteristics, which results in more accurate results. This differs from other traditional mathematical models which assume a homogenous population. As we've seen in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, having the ability to predict health outcomes and inform public policy decisions to ultimately save lives is where I hope ABM can help us to better understand human behavior at the community scale. 

Agent based modeling can be used in the context of modeling Covid-19 outcomes by starting at the individual level. Models can create individual profiles for each agent rather than assuming people are the same. This is highly important because as is happening in the US today, each state and even different counties can have wildly different health outcomes based on local policies. Additionally, individuals are all unique. For example, different age groups have different behaviors for going out and how much risk tolerance they have. Once these individual agents are created, models can determine interactions between individuals and ultimately the results of the model help to shape strategies to ultimately reduce transmission of Covid-19. 

One concern about the rise of big data is individual privacy. As mentioned before, the power of having big data is that we can accurately predict human behavior in order to benefit society. However, this also has the potential to be used for harm. Already, advertisers and companies have seen the value of being able to predict what products and services we are likely to buy. In some cases, this benefits the individual. You might want to see ads for products that you've been looking to buy. And yet, as companies learn more and more about an individual and build a profile, this behavior has the potential to become manipulative and predatory.

The rise of social media is another trend that has defined the start of this century. Social media has it's own benefits in sharing culture and being able to connect with people around the world in a way that has never before been possible. Yet, as we've seen in recent years, social media can be dangerous as well. Misinformation campaigns can lead to tricking people into believing in falsehoods that can result in physical harm. Additionally, social media companies have an incentive to show you content that you are likely to prefer. This can lead to echo chambers where you are only shown information that aligns with your viewpoints or are more radical, rather than provide a healthy environment where you are shown both sides to better inform decisions and opinions. I do believe that data science has the potential to benefit society in a large way, but as with all new technologies policies should be implemented to protect individuals. 

Already in some authoritarian countries, there are facial recognition cameras in many public spaces that have been installed supposedly for security purposes. While these may be effective in reducing crime and theft, they also could be used for more sinister purposes. For example, protesters may be intimidated against rallying in public against their government if they fear being identified and punished for their participation. Just as data science has the potential to do good, we must be wary of the harm that technology can inflict as well. 

Overall, the rise of big data has already made a lasting impact on our society, and it will continue to do so. There is great potential for data science and ABM to be used for good, as when models are effectively designed they help to make informed decisions and can even help draw connections that would normally be overlooked. The advantage of using individual agents as a better simulation of the real world provides a huge advantage over traditional models in producing accurate results that mimic real world situations. However, as our society moves forward, we must still be careful and aware of the dangers of each tool we use. As these dangers become known, steps must be taken to limit or remove the potential for harm, and while it is impossible to predict the challenges ahead, the most important thing is to learn from them. The potential of agent based modeling as a tool to enact change and improve the quality of life for all is huge, and as new strategies and tools are developed the potential only grows. 

